So I wanna introduce something else with
defining DevOps, and this is where we're
gonna kind of start working with some
more of theory and things like that.
How many of you here have heard
the three W's of strategy?
Okay, yeah, yeah.
[LAUGH] No, it's okay,
to be honest with you,
I didn't know it either until
about a year and a half ago.
And so it's actually a really, really,
really powerful tool that DevOps
uses more than programming.
And it's mostly used to really
figure out if we even want
to solve this problem, right?
I'm sure we've all been in discussions or
meetings where somebody has said,
hey, let's do this.
And you're like, cool, why?
[LAUGH] Who's this helping, why?
This solves that problem, or
it can solve that problem for you.
And the three W's of strategy
are basically why, what, and who?
Why, reasons and
motivations behind the strategy, right?
What, goals and objectives that
the strategy is intended to achieve.
And then who, basically the people
who are benefiting from this.
And so if you start thinking about some of
these even to things that you have at your
company, you might be able to start to
see what is a little bit more important,
potentially, and what is,
potentially, a little less important.
But together, these three Ws basically
help you to provide a clear understanding
of strategy and
what it aims to accomplish.
And as a matter of fact,
you can even use these three W's of
strategy to throw out whole
projects [LAUGH] if you want to.
Not the first time I've done it, I've
definitely had to basically look somebody
in the eyes and say,
this is really cool, who does this help?
And then they've said, nobody, and
then I said, okay, we'll visit it later.
[LAUGH] And again, that's also another
very serious part about DevOps,
is focusing on not spending
the company's money or
resources on something
that doesn't need to be.
You're at that level in DevOps where
people are looking to you
to solving these problems.
And so the three W's of strategy
is actually a really good,
helpful tool that can help
you with that confidently.
So if we take the why,
the what, and the who, and
then we apply that to DevOps, right?
And what we're actually gonna do is,
we're gonna try applying it to, say,
our own company, right?
So we'll do a little bit of
a thought experiment here.
So, why does our company need DevOps,
right?
To give a few examples,
say you don't have DevOps at all.
[LAUGH] That's a good place to start.
Or, say, you have very outdated deployment
strategies, maybe you don't even have
CI/CD, maybe you don't have a lot of these
things that we've talked about before.
That's a good reason to use to
utilize DevOps, is just the simple,
we don't have it, or
it's not being done well.
The next thing,
what do we accomplish with it?
Well, if we've said we don't have
a lot of automation around things or
a lot of things in place that
are helping us be agile at our company,
then we accomplish that, right?
We accomplish being able to be more
agile by creating automation or
doing other things that'll
help us get there.
And then the final one is,
who do we help with DevOps?
Well, in this regard,
it would probably be most of the company.
If you've never had a CI/CD platform
before, or it's ever been implemented,
then that's something that's never
saved you guys time before, right?
That's something that a company's
never been able to, or
that company has potentially
never been able to utilize.
So good, again, just as a very simple why,
what and who thought experiment there.
Hopefully, that can at least
kinda give you an idea.
And just to do one more, say,
why do we need Kubernetes?
Good old,
why do we need Kubernetes, right?
Sure, well,
what do we accomplish with Kubernetes?
I'm not gonna answer that.
[LAUGH] I'll let you answer that.
But what do we accomplish with Kubernetes?
And then who does Kubernetes help, right?
Taking those three things and
taking them to a company might get
you into some interesting arguments.
But it can definitely help you with,
do we care about using Kubernetes, really?
I can guarantee you most companies
have not even thought about this, and
they're already painstakingly dealing
with Kubernetes and things like that,
just simply because they didn't ask.
Well, do we actually need it?
And again, I basically just kinda went
through what are in the slides here,
again, to hopefully help
with that rapid and
reliable build of software and
deployment of it, right?
And it's not even that,
it's also monitoring it as well.
So, if you don't have monitoring
at your company, cool,
that's probably something that
you could utilize DevOps with.
Again, what do we accomplish with it?
We are able to implement and
automate these processes, so
that we have the ability of
empowering our teams to release and
iterate on their products quickly and
effectively.
A big one on this which is
something that probably a lot of
people might not think
of is empowering QA.
QA, unfortunately, gets thought about
not as much as it really should be.
And when you think about what
we can accomplish with it,
there's a lot of really cool things
that's just helping out the QA team.
I implemented a feature the other day,
where it just allows the QA
team to go into a channel and
ask what the deployment statuses are.
That's it, something very simple, but
we realized that they were
constantly hitting us up.
So it was either we constantly
let them continue to do that, or
we try and solve a problem for that.
And again, that's with the same
example where QA can be helpful,
that's who we're helping, right?
We're helping a specific part of
the organization or something like that,
to essentially solve a problem
within the organization.